an art deco building with beautifully
restored architecture houses a modern
American restaurant with strong Cajun
and Creole influences it's a lexia spot
for a special spin on southern comfort
food it's on Fillmore in San Francisco
and it's called the elite cafe
my name is Peter snyderman and i bought
the elite cafe in 2005 it's been here
since 1981 and during the entire 30
years we've been doing New Orleans
cuisine there's an amazing energy right
at California on fillmore street the
upper phillimore stretches for about 10
blocks but there's more going on there's
more liveliness and activity and energy
in this one block than anywhere else on
the street we very much wanted to
maintain the architecture and the field
it's an amazing original art deco
building and we wanted to make sure that
even though we were going to be giving
it a facelift we didn't want anyone to
walk in and think they're walking into a
different space we decided to focus on
the flavors of New Orleans as opposed to
the traditional preparations of the
dishes because they're the classic
preparation is very heavy and rich which
is wonderful but we wanted to have a
kind of a lighter touch to the food and
take advantage of the amazing produce in
California though we're in San Francisco
we really believe in providing southern
hospitality to our guests many people
come in three or four times a week for
happy hour or two enjoy dinner at the
bar we have a large number of guests and
coming regularly for brunch and we see
some of the same families every year on
special occasions
all right Alexa you are a die-hard elite
elite fan you drive an hour and a half
to go there I do I did the food is worth
it I mean you go there to live in the
city I used to live in the city I moved
away a few years ago but I has not
stopped me from coming back and making
that drive to the city to get this food
it's delicious you go where did the
neighborhood is beautiful you can do
some shopping before you actually sit
down and eat my favorite dish is the
California seafood gumbo it's a
beautiful staple there what they do is
they incorporate California ingredients
with New Orleans traditional ingredients
in this gumbo you have a nice dark room
with scallops and oysters it's nothing
that is typically in a gumbo but it's a
very beautiful dish that they do they're
very well and that's what you that's
what you dream about every time I go
there I have to have some of the
California together and what did you
have me knew when you went all I had the
crab with tagliatelle I could never
pronounce it speaking Italian by the
time of day oh well try but I had that I
mean I was kind of disappointed with the
portion and the dish was really
flavorful but I felt that there wasn't
enough sauce for me to get all of the
flavors in it I was really like they
swiping it for for the sauce I mean the
place was good I but what really weld me
was the sides I love the deep fried okra
I had deep fried okra cut differently
but this one they cut the long way which
I think made the difference because it
was really creamy as i bite into it and
it came with the really good spicy aioli
sauce and on the other side that we had
was the you could either choose the
buttermilk or goat cheese mashed
potatoes we chose the goat cheese and
that was really awesome also so thank
you love goat cheese is what I'm getting
into and what did you have Matt in primm
civ well I my appetizer I had but I
absolutely went crazy for were the
muscles and they were served in the
tippet traditional Louisiana New Orleans
style with the spicy sausage and a
beautiful broth the saffron broth with
it that was just I mean I ate every last
drop of those muscles I really enjoyed
that but you one of the things i want to
I don't want to skip over its deep
architecture of this place 1928 the
building is from negative 20 that's
right and you feel like you're
transported in
mine into old San Francisco and the vibe
in this place is full of energy I mean
this place is up there were a lot if I
went on there on a friday night so it
was packed and the energy was really
high did you take a booth or do them
well we interestingly enough my table
reservations didn't get transferred
there and I was a little worried about
that but within five minutes the hostess
got us one of the booths which is really
the sort of the best part of the
restaurants we felt really lucky and
happy about that but it was really good
too loud at the bar but then you go into
that booth and that's a little more
romantic and quiet and intimate that's
right and then for we also had the
California jambalaya I think it's called
Enda was it was delicious too very fresh
tasting seafood in it which we really
enjoyed and that area itself can be very
challenging to park but like petaluma
it's one of those places you kind of
want to go early and wander the
neighborhood man yeah you want to go
there when you have a little bit you
know make your reservation of course to
get a good table but then you want to go
and you want to kind of a little bit of
shopping they have some great area of
you boutiques there we can go in and and
get some shopping done before you
actually sit down and eat and then if
you get a booth they have beautiful
hangers we can put your person your
shopping bags there i mean the booths
are one of the best parts of the
restaurant did you have a good
experience service wife well held the
service that we had I felt that he got a
little bit too pushy because he started
coming in every two minutes asking us if
already me my friend were having a
conversation and we were getting
interrupted but other than that he was
really helpful again I did they I asked
him for a wine recommendation and they
have quite a wine list me quite an
extensive list they have an elite list
with some yes some older vintages of
great California wines and so definitely
you want to drink wine or at least a
cocktail when you're there yeah
definitely their wine list I went
through it it is it's a really a top
notch at wine list but we actually
ordered cocktails and the cocktails were
made to perfection right and what about
desserts because I mean this place is
known for brunch as well but what about
desserts the one that I remember most is
their triple espresso ice cream I
thought it is the best espresso ice
cream I've ever had it was really good
and then I was asking them I mean our
pressure waiter at started talking man
city he's coming back I told them this
ice cream you should've anymore so
that's what do don't make health
sorbets there which are delicious you
know it's based on the season which
torbay they'll serve and they
are just they're fabulous after a heavy
meal a nice light flavorful dessert like
that it's a beautiful finish every time
when you've got to have if you're going
to having New Orleans style cuisine you
got to have the beignets for the a
dessert which were served with a coffee
ice cream and that's chocolate sauce
smells really good many beauties all
right this is your restaurant the elite
cafe alexia rapid I cannot recommend it
higher it's a beautiful restaurant to
look at and do sit down and eat it's
comfortable it's like a great big hug in
the cold city it's it wonderful it's a
wonderful place to go the food is
seasoned beautifully all right neyo I
thought the places so it's a bit pricey
and it's a for me for a special occasion
probably for first anniversary because
of the booths a plus location authentic
New Orleans style cuisine in a in a
timeless ambiance all right if you would
like to try the elite cafe it's on
fillmore at California in San Francisco
the telephone number is 415 346 8400
dinner is served every day with brunch
on the weekends reservations are
recommended and the average dinner tab
per person without drinks is around
forty dollars